Today I'd like to work on the hands.
We could go into edit mode and pull points around like we did with the hips but I think what I'd like
to do instead for these is come down in the subdivision level over here just click and the sculped value
and bring that down maybe to one so we can kind of see the polygons and what I'd like to do is just
pull some points around pull some polygons around to reshape this thumb a bit.
So zoom in here.
I think what I'll also do is hover over the hand right here and press alt F and that will allow me now
to tumble around the hand.
All right so now if I zoom in here and increase the brush just a bit and start with the grab brush start
pulling these back and kind of rearranging these to get more of a shape on the thumb that I want here.
So I'm just going to move these around here and we go a little bit better.
I'll come around to this side and work on over here.
All right.
So I've got the thumb kind of the way I want it to of course.
There's more to do here.
Let's work on the fingers here.
I think maybe I'll take all of this and move it up just a bit in here.
All right so let's come back up in the subdivision levels here or come back up to three and with three
I'm just going to start roughing in a little bit more of the padding of the hand a little bit more of
the meat of the hand.
So if I come back over here to the clay strips brush and maybe add just a little bit right up here kind
of curving that area where the knuckles are.
And then back here maybe begin to rough in the pads of the hands maybe something like this here and
this other one over here at the thumb and the great thing about hands is you've got built in reference
images right on your other hand so I can just hold my hand up and take a look.
And I'm also going to put some pads right along here at the base of the fingers.
And at this point I'll maybe hint at the tendons along the top of the hand here so maybe I'll reduce
the brush size a bit.
Let me just test here and see what the strength is like and maybe I could suggest the tendons here at
the back of the hand and I should probably begin using the inflate brush and try and inflate the fingers
and thumb out a bit.
So there are more cylindrical and not so pointed.
I'll come over here to the inflate brush right here and let's work on that
and I'll use the smooth brush to try and smooth down that point at the tip of the finger.
It doesn't need to be quite that pointed you can use the inflate again.
And also at the top of the fingers we could use the flattened brush a bit just to kind of flatten the
tops here.
Now it might make our lives a little easier if I masked off certain fingers and we could certainly do
that.
I do want to mention one caveat with that.
One problem that you can run into so right now all the work I'm doing is being mirrored over to the
other side here because I've got symmetry on right here along the x axis.
However if I were to say wanted to hide the body and work on the hand if I press the H key here and
dragged and selected all of this to hide it.
Now if I came in when a press alt to zoom in on that and zoom in here.
Now let's say I came in and did something like I'll just do something kind of drastic here to make a
point say I did this.
Now if I come back and press alt H and come back over here to the other side you can see that it didn't
come through.
So be careful of the trap of thinking that you can hide off the other side of the body and it will mirror
over.
In this particular sculpt mode.
And with these particular tools it won't do that.
When we get to the point when we were using the Duyne Toppo sculpting tools and that's a newer type
of sculpting in Blender there is a tool here called symmetry.
Not sure how you pronounce that where you can force the sculpting information from one side of the body
over to the other.
But when you use this method of sculpting you can't use the levels of subdivisions like we're doing
here.
So I usually save the Duyn Toppo for more detailed fine work.
Maybe for clothing or skin wrinkles or something like that.
It's good for that.
So just a warning about symmetry and hiding.
Be careful that you don't do a whole lot of work on one side and realize then when you unhide everything
that it isn't over here as well.
So if you want to hide the body while you're sculpting the hand one good way to do it is just to press
age and maybe hide the center part of the body while retaining the parts that are going to be mirrored
over.
All right.
So I will go back to the in-flight brush here and work a little bit more on this finger.
And once again I'll use the smooth brush at the top here to try and smooth that tip down a bit.
And then inflate it back out.
And then once again I'll hit the back of the finger here with the flattened brush just kind of flatten
the top up a bit and let's work on the pinky here as well.
It needs some volume to it.
And the smooth brush up top here and take the point off a little bit.
And periodically I'll just smooth it back and try and redo the shape when it gets a little out of hand
and the flat brush as well here.
And the back
I'm going to come back.
The clay strips brush and just add a little form on the outside here.
And we try and even add up some
and we still need to work on that thumb.
Now don't we.
So let's work on that of debt inflate that up
and I'll come back to the clay strips and then begin trying to shape the hand a little bit more.
I believe I am going to go ahead and add another subdivision level to this to try and get a little more
detail in here.
We don't need a whole lot at this point in time but it be nice to have a little bit more detail on the
hand right now.
I'm going to pull the wrist in just a hair here and over on this side as well.
So I will go ahead and come over here to the subdivide button and just press it one more time.
And that gives us one more subdivision level over here.
It makes things a little smoother but it also gives us a little bit more freedom to add some detail.
So at this point in time I think I'll add just a little more meat to the pads of the hands here.
Continuing with the clay strips and then I'll use this sculpt draw brush right here bring the strength
then some and use this to kind of give us a wrist bone here something like this
and just for reference.
And so we kind of know where things are as we're going to move it up just a bit.
Like this maybe and I'll smooth it back don't need it quite that heavy something like that.
That'll just help position things as we go.
Maybe some pads here along the base of the fingers.
And I think I'll come back here with a sculpt draw tool and just draw those tendons in one more time.
All right well that's a pretty good start to our hands in the next video we'll work on detailing them
a little bit more giving more definition to the pads and the knuckles.
But for now I think that's pretty good.
Let's go ahead and bring back the rest of the character here with old age.
And there we go.
And we want to make sure that the information did get mirrored over to the other side and it looks like
it did.
That's good.
So our task coming up is to kind of finish up the hands and even the lower legs here.
And of course we need to rough them the basic forms of the head and face.
We haven't even touched that yet.
So all of that is coming up soon.